Sa additional ipv6 (#7875)
ovh/docs: pages/bare_metal_cloud/dedicated_servers/configure-an-ipv6-in-a-vrack/guide.en-gb.md

**This guide focuses on Additional IPv6 address block configuration within a vRack network.**

> [!primary]
>
> vRack supports both IPv4 and IPv6 blocks. You can find the instructions on how to configure IPv4 blocks in this guide: [Configuring an IP block in a vRack](https://help.ovhcloud.com/csm/en-dedicated-servers-ip-block-vrack?id=kb_article_view&sysparm_article=KB0043342).
>

> [!primary]
>

> > This article is about Additional IP. If you need guidance on Primary IP configuration, we suggest the following articles:<br> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> This article is about Additional IP. If you need guidance on primary IP configuration, we suggest the following articles:<br> 
```

Author: Modified as suggested.

> > This article is focusing on Additional IP configuration over a vRack network. If you search for guidance on configuration Additional IP together with primary IP (on public network interface), we suggest checking following articles:<br> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> This article is focusing on Additional IP configuration over a vRack network. If you look for guidance on Additional IP configuration together with primary IP (on public network interface), read the following articles:<br> 
```

> > IPv4: [Configuring IP aliasing on dedicated servers](https://help.ovhcloud.com/csm/en-dedicated-servers-network-ipaliasing?id=kb_article_view&sysparm_article=KB0043756), [Configuring IP aliasing on a VPS](https://help.ovhcloud.com/csm/en-vps-network-ipaliasing?id=kb_article_view&sysparm_article=KB0047585)<br>

Reviewer: You need to write links using the GitHub folders names.

Author: Made the change on all articles.

> > IPv4: [Configuring IP aliasing on dedicated servers](/pages/bare_metal_cloud/dedicated_servers/network_ipaliasing/), [Configuring IP aliasing on a VPS](/pages/bare_metal_cloud/virtual_private_servers/configuring-ip-aliasing/)<br>

Reviewer: There shouldn't be any final / in your guides links. Otherwise they will be broken on prod.

Author: Information noted, I'm currently correcting the documents affected.

The example above shows two hosts with their vRack-side interfaces configured with IPv6 public addresses. One host is configured manually, while the other has an IP address assigned automatically using SLAAC. All IP addresses belong to the first /64 subnet from a given public /56 Additional IPv6 block. Both leverage the vRack interface for public IPv6 connectivity.

> Default gateway for the first /64 subnet (bridged one) is the first address from the /56 block. In this example it is 2001:41d0:abcd:ef00::1. This is distributed via SLAAC, but must be manually configured (as a default route) if SLAAC is disabled - see **Static IP configuration** below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Default gateway for the first /64 subnet (bridged one) is the first address from the /56 block. In this example it is `2001:41d0:abcd:ef00::1`. This is distributed via SLAAC, but must be manually configured (as a default route) if SLAAC is disabled - see **Static IP configuration** below.
```

Author: Added the appropriate markers on IPv6 addresses.

> Default gateway for the first /64 subnet (bridged one) is the first address from the /56 block. In this example it is `2001:41d0:abcd:ef00::1`. This is distributed via SLAAC, but must be manually configured (as a default route) if SLAAC is disabled - see **Static IP configuration** below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The default gateway for the first /64 subnet (bridged one) is the first address from the /56 block. In this example it is `2001:41d0:abcd:ef00::1`. This is distributed via SLAAC but must be manually configured (as a default route) if SLAAC is disabled. See the **Static IP configuration** section below.
```

$ sudo ip address add 2001:41d0:abcd:ef00::2/64 dev eth1
```

> (Please note that the first IP address in a block, `2001:41d0:abcd:ef00::1/64` is gateway IP address and must not be used for host addressing).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Please note that the first IP address in a block, `2001:41d0:abcd:ef00::1/64` is the gateway IP address and must not be used for host addressing.
```

For routed subnet definition any prefix size can be used between /57 and /64.

> Default gateway for the host is the first address from the /56 block, which is in this example: 2001:41d0:abcd:ef00::1. Default gateway used on the VMs then, are the configured host addresses (in this example fd00::1).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Default gateway for the host is the first address from the /56 block, which is in this example: `2001:41d0:abcd:ef00::1`. Default gateway used on the VMs then, are the configured host addresses (in this example fd00::1).
```

Author: Added the appropriate markers on IPv6 addresses.

For routed subnet definition any prefix size can be used between /57 and /64.

> Default gateway for the host is the first address from the /56 block, which is in this example: `2001:41d0:abcd:ef00::1`. Default gateway used on the VMs then, are the configured host addresses (in this example fd00::1).

Reviewer: Please rephrase the 2nd sentence? It's not clear enough.

Author: It should be clearer now - ping me again if it can be improved.
